Graph Javascript SDK Example (#779)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/graphs/graph-sdk-example.md

Reviewer: Please move this file into graph-examples folder.

---
title: Graph SDK Example
sidebar_position: 100
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> ## Example Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Avoid stacked headings. When generated, this h2 would have been directly under the h1.

> This example demonstrates the ability of graph databases in analyzing and offering recommendations for items that are commonly purchased together. By establishing connections between customer and item vertices using edge collections, the graph is able to seamlessly and accurately deliver tailored recommendations to customers who have bought a particular item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows the ability of graph databases in analyzing and offering recommendations for items that are commonly purchased together. By establishing connections between customer and item vertices using edge collections, the graph is able to accurately deliver tailored recommendations to customers who have bought a particular item.
```

![Create a collection](/img/graphs/sdk-graph-image.png)

> In the graph that we created customers Dino and Durga bought the same items. The graph is able to recommend items to Dallas based on the items that Dino and Durga bought. This is a simple example of how graph databases can be used to offer recommendations to customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the graph that we created ,customers Dino and Durga bought the same items. The graph is able to recommend items to Dallas based on the items that Dino and Durga bought. This is a simple example of how graph databases can be used to offer recommendations to customers.
```

Reviewer: Also, the graph doesn't recommend anything by itself. You can run a graph traversal to find this info, though. Or am I missing something here?

> ## How to define vertices and edges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Define Vertices and Edges
```

> For this example we will have two vertices - `groceryCustomers` and `groceryItems` and one edge collection - `groceryOrders`. The `groceryOrders` edge collection will be used to establish a connection between a customer and an item that they bought. Vertex collections are document store collections that store the vertices of a graph. Edge collections are graph edge collections that store the edges of a graph, edge collections have the `_from` and `_to` attributes that are used to establish a connection between two vertices.

Reviewer: When you say "two vertices," do you mean vertices or vertex collections? 
 
Also, you don't need much basic info. This is an example, not a getting started topic. We cover this information elsewhere.

Vertex example in `groceryCustomers` collection:

```json
{
    "_key": "C01",
    "name": "John Doe"
},
...
```

Vertex example in `groceryItems` collection:

```json
{
    "_key": "P03",
    "name": "pineapple"
},
...
```

Graph edge example in `groceryOrders` collection (Connection between customer C01 and item P03):

```json
{
    "_from": "groceryCustomers/C01",
    "_key": "4117657795",
    "_to": "groceryItems/P03"
},
...
```

> ## Import the example data

Reviewer: Make sure all headings are written in title case.

If you want to try out the example, you can import the data into your Macrometa GDN account.

> Data can be found in the `sample-data` folder of this [repository](https://github.com/Macrometacorp/macrometa-graph-example).

Reviewer: There is no folder visible to me in that repository. It looks empty except for a README.

> - Create two document collections in Macrometa GDN using console.

Reviewer: Link to the Create Document Store topic for instructions. Also, they don't have to use the console.

    - `groceryItems`
    - `groceryCustomers`

> - Create one edge collection in Macrometa GDN using Macrometa console.

Reviewer: Link to instructions for Create Edge Collection.

    - `groceryOrders`

> - Import test data from sample-data folder to created collections using console. Name of the files are the same as the collection names.

Reviewer: Link to instructions for this. Also, do they need to select a primary key when they import?

> ## How to create the graph on Macrometa GDN

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create the Graph
```

> Now that we have the data imported, we can create the graph on Macrometa GDN using javascript SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the data is imported, you can create the graph on Macrometa GDN using JavaScript SDK.
```

### Prerequisites

> - A free trial [Macrometa account](https://auth-play.macrometa.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [Macrometa account](https://auth-play.macrometa.io/).
```

Reviewer: Prerequisites need to be much earlier. How did they create collections without an account?

> - A Node.js 14+ installation on your local machine. You can download it from [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

Reviewer: Do not use vague text such as "here" for link text. Use the name of the page.

> - Install the Macrometa [javascript SDK](../sdks/install-sdks.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install the Macrometa [JavaScript SDK](../sdks/install-sdks.md).
```

> :::note

Reviewer: Remove this note.

To check your Node.js version, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
node -v
```
:::

> ### Create a graph

Reviewer: We already had an almost identical heading to this. Why the repeat?

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="js" label="Javascript">

```js
const jsc8 = require("jsc8");

client = new jsc8({
  url: "https://play.paas.macrometa.io",
  apiKey: "xxxxx",
  fabricName: "_system",
});

> // Please be sure that edge collections and vertices have been created before running this script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Edge collections and vertices must be created before running this script.
```

async function createGraph() {
  const response = await client.createGraph("grocery-graph", {
    edgeDefinitions: [
      {
        // Edge collection name --> This collection holds relationships between vertices
        collection: "groceryOrders",
        // Vertex collection that is used as the start vertex of the edge
        from: ["groceryCustomers"],
        // Vertex collection that is used as the start vertex of the edge
        to: ["groceryItems"],
      },
    ],
  });
  console.log(response);
}
createGraph();
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

After we have created the graph, we can start querying it.

> ##  How to query the graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##  Query the Graph
```

### Query explanation

> Query for the recommendations for a customer can be done using the following query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Query for the recommendations for a customer can be done using the following query:
```

Reviewer: I don't think this section is a query explanation, more like Query the Graph or Run Graph Traversal Query.

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="js" label="C8QL">

```js

// Query: Recommend the most popular item in the grocery store based on the number of users who purchased it
LET doc = (FOR d in groceryItems FILTER d.name == @name RETURN d)[0]
FOR user IN 1..1 INBOUND doc groceryOrders
    FOR item IN 1..1 OUTBOUND user groceryOrders
        COLLECT i=item.name WITH COUNT INTO c
        FILTER i != @name
        SORT c DESC
        // LIMIT 2
        RETURN {"item": i, "count": c}   // item -> number of users who purchased it
                                         // count -> number of times it was purchased
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> The `@name` is a bind variable that can be set to any item name. In this example we can set it to `peanut butter`. First we are filtering by item name and then collecting all the users who purchased that item. Then we are collecting all the items that were purchased by those users. We are filtering out the item that we are looking (`peanut butter`) for and sorting the result by the number of times it was purchased.

Reviewer: I'm confused. I thought this was an SDK example. Are we doing this query via SDK or in the web console?

### Create Query Worker

> We can create a Query Worker on Macrometa GDN using console, javascript SDK, CLI or using the REST API.

Reviewer: Do not write for "we," write for "you."

Reviewer: Also, do not capitalize "query worker" unless referring to it in the UI where it is capitalized.

> Exported Query Worker can be found in the `sample-data` folder of this [repository](https://github.com/Macrometacorp/macrometa-graph-example). It is possible to import the query worker using console. (`import-query.json`)

Reviewer: Wait, what? When did we export the query worker?

After we have created the Query Worker, we can start using it using the following code:

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="js" label="Javascript">

```js
const jsc8 = require("jsc8");

client = new jsc8({
  url: "https://play.paas.macrometa.io",
  apiKey: "xxxxx",
  fabricName: "_system",
});

let itemCustomerSelected = "peanut butter";

async function queryGraph() {
  // Query has bind variables that we need to provide as a second argument
  response = await client.executeRestql("grocery-recomendations", {
    name: itemCustomerSelected,
  });
  console.log(response.result);
}
queryGraph();
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Query result

If customer selected `peanut butter` item, the result will following recommendation:

```json
[

>   { item: 'jelly', count: 2 },

Reviewer: Wait, what? Where did this come from? I didn't see an import query anywhere.

  { item: 'napkins', count: 2 },
  { item: 'strawberry', count: 2 },
  { item: 'banana', count: 1 },
  { item: 'milk', count: 1 },
  { item: 'celery', count: 1 },
  { item: 'bread', count: 1 },
  { item: 'white claw', count: 1 },
  { item: 'kiwi', count: 1 },
  { item: 'ketchup', count: 1 },
  { item: 'apple', count: 1 }
]
```

> First recommendation according to this query is jelly which is purchased by 2 users. Second recommendation is napkins which is purchased by 2 users. Third recommendation is strawberry which is purchased by 2 users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First recommendation according to this query is jelly which is purchased by two users. Second recommendation is napkins which is purchased by two users. Third recommendation is strawberry which is purchased by two users.
```

## CRUD operations on graph

> It is possible to create, read, update and delete vertices and edges in the graph using javascript SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create, read, update, and delete vertices and edges in the graph using JavaScript SDK.
```

Full example can be found in this [repository](https://github.com/Macrometacorp/macrometa-graph-example).

> ## Example Data Set

Reviewer: I'm confused again. I thought the sample data was supposed to be in the repo that was linked near the top, but now it is also here??

What I've done in previous examples where I have data is use a C8QL query to add docs to an existing collection. This might be something to do with the SDK. Show users how to use the SDK to:

- Create collections of different types.
- Add data to the collections.
- Create graphs using the collection.
- Query the collection. 
- Create query workers.
- Run query workers, especially ones that use bind parameters. Bonus points if some need bind parameters and some don't.

Grocery Customers collection sample. (`groceryCustomers`)
```
{
    "_key": "C01",
    "name": "John Doe"
},
{
    "_key": "C02",
    "name": "Jane Smith"
},
{
    "_key": "C03",
    "name": "David Lee"
},
{
    "_key": "C04",
    "name": "Amanda Chen"
}
...
```

> Grocery Items collection sample. (`groceryItems`)

Reviewer: Add empty lines above and below this paragraph.

```
{
    "_key": "P01",
    "name": "orange"
},
{
    "_key": "P02",
    "name": "strawberry"
},
{
    "_key": "P07",
    "name": "apple"
},
{
    "_key": "P05",
    "name": "beer"
}
...
```

Grocery Orders collection sample. (`groceryOrders` -> this is an edge collection)

> **Note**: `_from` and `_to` are specific fields of edge collection.

Reviewer: Make this a proper note. Format:

:::note
Note text
:::
